[`The world's oldest wooden wheel has been around for more than 5000 years. It was found in 2002 approximately 12 miles south of Ljubljana the capital of Slovenia and is now housed in the city's museum. Radiocarbon dating was used to determine the wheel's age which is somewhere between 5100 and 5350 years old`,
`Dead skin cells are a main ingredient in household dust. According to researchers at Imperial College London humans shed around 200 million skin cells each hour and they have to go somewhere when we're indoors. If the idea of skin dust isn't sitting well with you you should know that a report from the American Chemical Society found that a skin oil called squalene naturally helps reduce indoor ozone levels by up to 15 percent.`,
`Sudan has more pyramids than any country in the world. Not only does Sudan have more pyramids than Egypt but the numbers aren't even close. While 138 pyramids have been discovered in Egypt Sudan boasts around 255.`,
`The bumblebee bat is the world's smallest mammal. Weighing in at 0.05 to 0.07 ounces with a head to body length of 1.14 to 1.29 inches and a wingspan of 5.1 to 5.7 inches the bumblebee bat also known as Kitti's hog nosed bat is the smallest mammal in the world according to the Guinness Book of World Records. To see this tiny bat for yourself you'd have to visit one of a select few limestone caves on the Khwae Noi River in Kanchanaburi Province of southwest Thailand.`,
`The circulatory system is more than 60000 miles long. If a child's entire circulatory system we're talking veins arteries and capillaries were laid out flat it would stretch for more than 60000 miles according to the Franklin Institute. By the time we reach adulthood our bodies have become home to approximately 100000 miles of blood vessels.`,
`There are parts of Africa in all four hemispheres. For people whose education was largely focused on the Western world it may be surprising to find out exactly how huge the continent of Africa is. For instance it spans all four hemispheres and covers nearly 12 million square miles.`,
`The cornea is one of only two parts of the human body without blood vessels. The cornea is the clear part of the eye that covers the pupil and other parts of the eye. Cartilage and the cornea are the only types tissue in the human body that do not contain blood vessels according to scientists at the Harvard Department of Ophthalmology's Schepens Eye Research Institute.`,
`The world's first animated feature film was made in Argentina. Even if you know a lot of Disney trivia you might assume that the honor of first animated feature film belongs to Walt Disney's 1937 movie Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. But 20 years earlier a full length animated feature film was made in Argentina. It was a political satire called El Apóstol made up of 58000 drawings and had a running time of 70 minutes according to the Guinness Book of World Records.`,
`German chocolate cake was invented in Texas. The “German” part of German chocolate cake comes from an American man not a European country. Specifically it's named after Sam German who in 1852 created the formula for a mild dark baking chocolate bar for Baker's Chocolate Company which was subsequently named Baker's German's Sweet Chocolate. Fast forward to June 13 1957. The Dallas Morning Star published the recipe for the cake invented and submitted by a reader identified as Mrs. George Clay according to What's Cooking America.`,
`The Philippines consists of 7641 islands. The Philippines is an archipelago which means it's made up of a group of islands 7,641 islands to be exact. That figure does not include the thousands of sandbars and other landforms that emerge during low tide.`,
`A one way trip on the Trans Siberian Railway involves crossing 3901 bridges. Not only is the Trans Siberian Railway the longest railroad in Russia but it's also the longest one in the world. The journey takes seven days during which time passengers pass through eight different time zones and cross 3901 bridges.`,
`The Golden Girls was supposed to have a different theme song. That's right Instead of Andrew Gold's iconic “Thank You for Being a Friend” the show's producers wanted to use Bette Midler's song “Friends” according to Jim Colucci. But the rights to the Divine Miss M's song were too expensive and the rest is sitcom history.`,
`Theres enough gold inside Earth to coat the planet. Turns out there's quite a bit of gold on or really in our planet 99 percent of the precious metal can be found in the Earth's core Discover Magazine reports. How much is there? Enough to coat the entire surface of the Earth in 1.5 feet of gold.`,
`Cleveland was once the country's fifth-largest city. Data from the 1920 U.S. census indicates that Cleveland Ohio was one of the most heavily populated cities in the country behind only Detroit Philadelphia Chicago and New York City.`,
`Human beings can use only a small fraction of Earth's water. In school we were taught that most specifically 71 percent of the planet's surface is covered in water. While that's true humans can use only 0.007 percent of that water according to National Geographic. That's because only about 2.5 percent of Earth's water is fresh water and only 1 percent of that is accessible. The rest makes up glaciers and snowfields.`,
`The brand name Spam is a combination of “spice” and “ham”. This is one of those interesting facts you probably thought you knew but actually didn't. Contrary to American mythology Spam is not an acronym for “Scientifically Processed Animal Matter” or “Shoulder of Pork and Ham".`,
`It takes a drop of water 90 days to travel the entire Mississippi River. Spanning 2340 miles the Mississippi River is the third largest watershed in the world. That's one long stretch of water. So long in fact that it takes one drop of water approximately 90 days to travel its entire length.`,
`People once ate arsenic to improve their skin. You've probably heard about how a lot of the Victorians' favorite cosmetics were riddled with arsenic but it gets worse. There were also products on the market in the late 19th century like Dr. James P. Campbell's Safe Arsenic Complexion Wafers that were meant to be eaten. They claimed to get rid of freckles blackheads and other “facial disfigurements.”`,
`The first person processed at Ellis Island was a 15-year old girl from Ireland. On January 1 1892 Annie Moore was the first passenger to disembark at Ellis Island on its opening day. She had traveled to the United States with her two younger brothers aboard the SS Nevada after departing from Queenstown Ireland now known as Cobh.`,
`Japan has one vending machine for every 40 people. Japan is thought to have one of the highest densities of vending machines in the world with one for every 40 people in the country. While most sell various types of beverages others feature ice cream noodles and disposable cameras.`,
`Lemons float but limes sink. Because limes are denser than lemons they drop to the bottom of a glass while lemons float at the top. Out of all these random fun facts this one's been in front of our faces or rather in our glasses this whole time!`,
`McDonald's once made bubblegum flavored broccoli. This crazy McDonald's fact will have your taste buds crawling. Unsurprisingly the attempt to get kids to eat healthier didn't go over well with the child testers' who were “confused by the taste.”',
`The first oranges weren't orange. The original oranges from Southeast Asia were a tangerine-pomelo hybrid and they were actually green. In fact oranges in warmer regions such as Vietnam and Thailand still stay green through maturity.`,
`There's only one letter that doesn't appear in any U.S. state name. Can you guess the answer to this random fun fact? You'll find a Z Arizona a J New Jersey and even two X's New Mexico and Texas but not a single Q.`,
`A cow-bison hybrid is called a beefalo. You can even buy its meat in at least 21 states.`,
`Johnny Appleseed's fruits weren't for eating. Yes there was a real John Chapman who planted thousands of apple trees on U.S. soil. But the apples on those trees were much more bitter than the ones you'd find in the supermarket today. “Johnny Appleseed” didn't expect his fruits to be eaten whole but rather made into hard apple cider.`,
`Scotland has 421 words for snow. Yes 421! Some examples sneesl to start raining or snowing feefle to swirl and flinkdrinkin a light snow.`,
`Samsung tests phone durability with a butt shaped robot. People stash their phones in their back pockets all the time which is why Samsung created a robot shaped like a butt to “sit” on their phones to make sure they can take the pressure. Believe it or not the robot even wears jeans.`,
`The Windy City nickname has nothing to do with Chicago's weather. If you live in Chicago you might already know this random fact but we're betting most other people don't. Chicago's nickname was coined by 19th-century journalists who were referring to the fact that its residents were “windbags” and “full of hot air.”`,
`Peanuts aren't technically nuts. They're legumes. According to Merriam Webster a nut is only a nut if it's “a hard shelled dry fruit or seed with a separable rind or shell and interior kernel.” That means walnuts almonds cashews and pistachios aren't nuts either. They're seeds.`,
`Armadillo shells are bulletproof. In fact one Texas man was hospitalized when a bullet he shot at an armadillo ricocheted off the animal and hit him in the jaw. That's a totally true animal tidbit.`,
`Firefighters use wetting agents to make water wetter. The chemicals reduce the surface tension of plain water so it's easier to spread and better soaks into objects which is why it's known as “wet water.”`,
`The longest English word is 189819 letters long. We won't spell it out here but the full name for the protein nicknamed titin would take three and a half hours to say out loud. While this is by far the longest word in English the longest word in the Oxford English Dictionary has 45 letters and the longest made-up word has just 28. Just a few more interesting facts for your next cocktail party!`,
`Some octopus species lay 56000 eggs at a time. On average a giant Pacific octopus will lay 56000 eggs at the end of a pregnancy over the course of about a month NPR reports. At first these new babies float through the surrounding water unattached to one another or their mother. But then the mother gathers each egg which is about the size of a grain of rice and weaves them into braids allowing her to keep an eye on everyone at the same time.`,
`Cats have fewer toes on their back paws. Like most four legged mammals cats have five toes on the front but their back paws only have four toes. Scientists think the four toed back paws might help them run faster.`,
`Kleenex tissues were originally intended for gas masks. When there was a cotton shortage during World War I Kimberly Clark developed a thin flat cotton substitute that the army tried to use as a filter in gas masks. The war ended before scientists perfected the material so the company redeveloped it to be smoother and softer then marketed Kleenex as facial tissue instead.`,
`Blue whales eat half a million calories in one mouthful. Just try to wrap your brain around the second part of this animal fact Those 457000 calories are more than 240 times the energy the whale uses to scoop those krill into its mouth.`,
`That tiny pocket in jeans was designed to store pocket watches. The original jeans had only four pockets that tiny pocket plus two more on the front and just one in the back.`,
`Turkeys can blush. When turkeys are scared or excited like when the males see a female they're interested in the pale skin on their head and neck turns bright red blue or white. The flap of skin over their beaks called a snood also reddens.`,
`Most Disney characters wear gloves to keep animation simple. Walt Disney might have been the first to put gloves on his characters as seen in 1929's The Opry House starring Mickey Mouse. In addition to being easier to animate there's another reason for the gloves “We didn't want him to have mouse hands because he was supposed to be more human” Disney told his biographer in 1957.`,
`The man with the world's deepest voice can make sounds humans can't hear. The man Tim Storms can't even hear the note which is eight octaves below the lowest G on a piano but elephants can.`,
`The current American flag was designed by a high school student. It started as a school project for Bob Heft's junior year history class in 1958 and it only earned a B minus. His design had 50 stars even though Alaska and Hawaii weren't states yet Heft figured the two would earn statehood soon and showed the government his design. After President Dwight D. Eisenhower called to say the design was approved Heft's teacher changed his grade to an A.`,
`Cows don't have upper front teeth. They do have molars on top in the back of their mouths but where you'd expect upper incisors cows sheep and goats have a thick layer of tissue called a dental pad. They use that with their bottom teeth to pull out grass.`,
`Only a quarter of the Sahara Desert is sandy. Most of it is covered in gravel though it also contains mountains and oases.`,
`Dogs sniff good smells with their left nostril. Dogs normally start sniffing with their right nostril then keep it there if the smell could signal danger but they'll shift to the left side for something pleasant like food or a mating partner.`,
`Avocados were named after reproductive organs. You'll never look at avocados the same way again. Indigenous people of Mexico and Central America used the Nahuatl word āhuacatl to mean both “testicles” and “avocado.” The fruits were originally marketed as “alligator pears” in the United States until the current name stuck.`,
`The word “fizzle” started as a type of fart. In the 1400s it meant to “break wind quietly” according to the English Oxford Living Dictionaries.`,
`The French have their own name for a French kiss. Something extra interesting about this kissing fact? The word hasn't been around for long. In 2014 galocher meaning to kiss with tongues was added to the Petit Robert French dictionary.`,
`Mercedes invented a car controlled by a joystick. The joystick in the 1966 Mercedes F200 showcase car controlled speed and direction replacing both the steering wheel and pedals. The car could also sense which side the driver was sitting in so someone could control it from the passenger seat.`,
`Theodore Roosevelt had a pet hyena. Its name was Bill and it was a present from the Ethiopian emperor. Roosevelt was famous for his many pets including a one legged rooster a badger a pony and a small bear.`,
`Giraffe tongues can be 20 inches long. Their dark bluish black color is probably to prevent sunburn.`,
`There's only one U.S. state capital without a McDonald's. Montpelier Vermont doesn't have any of those Golden Arches. It also happens to have the smallest population of any state capital with just 7500 residents.`,
`The inventor of the microwave appliance received only 2 dollars for his discovery. Percy Spencer was working as a researcher for American Appliance Company now Raytheon when he noticed that a radar set using electromagnetic waves melted the candy bar in his pocket. He had the idea to make a metal box using microwaves to heat food but the company was the one to file the patent. That was in 1945 and he received a 2 dollar bonus but never any royalties.`,
`Sloths have more neck bones than giraffes. Despite the difference in neck length there are more bones in the neck of a sloth than a giraffe. There are seven vertebrae in the neck of a giraffe and in most mammals but there are 10 in a sloth's.`,
`Ancient Egyptians used dead mice to ease toothaches. In Ancient Egypt people put a dead mouse in their mouth if they had a toothache according to Nathan Belofsky's book Strange Medicine A Shocking History of Real Medical Practices Through the Ages. Mice were also used as a warts remedy in Elizabethan England.`,
`The Terminator script was sold for 1 dollar. James Cameron is the award winning director of movies like Titanic and Avatar. In order to get his big break with The Terminator he sold the script for 1 dollar and a promise that he'd direct it. Of course this movie has some of the most famous movie quotes of all time in it.`,
`Japan released sushi inspired Kit Kats. For a limited time in 2017 Tokyo's Kit Kat Chocolatory shop made three types of the chocolate bar that were inspired by sushi but didn't actually taste like raw fish. The tuna sushi was raspberry the seaweed-wrapped one tasted like pumpkin pudding and the sea urchin sushi was the flavor of Hokkaido melon with mascarpone cheese. All were made with puffed rice white chocolate and a bit of wasabi.`,
`Penicillin was first called “mold juice”. In 1928 bacteriologist Alexander Fleming left a petri dish in his lab while he was on vacation only to return and find that some liquid around the mold had killed the bacteria in the dish. This became the world's first antibiotic but before naming it penicillin he called it “mold juice.”`,
`Bees can make colored honey. In France there's a biogas plant that manages waste from a Mars chocolate factory where M&Ms are made. Beekeepers nearby noticed that their bees were making “unnatural shades of green and blue” honey. A spokesperson from the British Beekeepers' Association theorized that the bees eating the sugary M&M waste caused the colored honey.`,
`Bananas glow blue under black lights. To the everyday eye under normal conditions ripe bananas appear yellow due to organic pigments called carotenoids. When bananas ripen chlorophyll begins to break down. This pigment is the element that makes bananas glow or fluoresce under UV lights and appear blue.`] 
